
=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Doodle::Index

=cut

=head1 ABSTRACT

Doodle Index Class

=cut

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Doodle;
  use Doodle::Index;
  use Doodle::Table;

  my $ddl = Doodle->new;

  my $table = Doodle::Table->new(
    name => 'users',
    doodle => $ddl
  );

  my $self = Doodle::Index->new(
    table => $table,
    columns => ['email', 'access_token']
  );

=cut

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This package provides table index representation.

=cut

=head1 LIBRARIES

This package uses type constraints from:

L<Doodle::Library>

=cut

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

This package has the following attributes:

=cut

=head2 columns

  columns(ArrayRef[Str])

This attribute is read-only, accepts C<(ArrayRef[Str])> values, and is optional.

=cut

=head2 data

  data(Data)

This attribute is read-only, accepts C<(Data)> values, and is optional.

=cut

=head2 name

  name(Str)

This attribute is read-only, accepts C<(Str)> values, and is optional.

=cut

=head2 table

  table(Table)

This attribute is read-only, accepts C<(Table)> values, and is required.

=cut

=head1 METHODS

This package implements the following methods:

=cut

=head2 create

  create(Any %args) : Command

Registers an index create and returns the Command object.

=over 4

=item create example #1

  # given: synopsis

  my $create = $self->create;

=back

=cut

=head2 delete

  delete(Any %args) : Command

Registers an index delete and returns the Command object.

=over 4

=item delete example #1

  # given: synopsis

  my $delete = $self->delete;

=back

=cut

=head2 doodle

  doodle() : Doodle

Returns the associated Doodle object.

=over 4

=item doodle example #1

  # given: synopsis

  my $doodle = $self->doodle;

=back

=cut

=head2 unique

  unique() : Index

Denotes that the index should be created and enforced as unique and returns
itself.

=over 4

=item unique example #1

  # given: synopsis

  my $unique = $self->unique;

=back

=cut

=head1 AUTHOR

Al Newkirk, C<awncorp@cpan.org>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2011-2019, Al Newkirk, et al.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms
of the The Apache License, Version 2.0, as elucidated in the L<"license
file"|https://github.com/iamalnewkirk/doodle/blob/master/LICENSE>.

=head1 PROJECT

L<Wiki|https://github.com/iamalnewkirk/doodle/wiki>

L<Project|https://github.com/iamalnewkirk/doodle>

L<Initiatives|https://github.com/iamalnewkirk/doodle/projects>

L<Milestones|https://github.com/iamalnewkirk/doodle/milestones>

L<Contributing|https://github.com/iamalnewkirk/doodle/blob/master/CONTRIBUTE.md>

L<Issues|https://github.com/iamalnewkirk/doodle/issues>

=cut
