
=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Doodle::Relation

=cut

=head1 ABSTRACT

Doodle Relation Class

=cut

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Doodle;
  use Doodle::Relation;
  use Doodle::Table;

  my $ddl = Doodle->new;

  my $table = Doodle::Table->new(
    name => 'users',
    doodle => $ddl
  );

  my $self = Doodle::Relation->new(
    table => $table,
    column => 'person_id',
    foreign_table => 'persons',
    foreign_column => 'id'
  );

=cut

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Table relation representation.

=cut

=head1 INTEGRATES

This package integrates behaviors from:

L<Doodle::Relation::Helpers>

=cut

=head1 LIBRARIES

This package uses type constraints from:

L<Doodle::Library>

=cut

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

This package has the following attributes:

=cut

=head2 column

  column(Str)

This attribute is read-only, accepts C<(Str)> values, and is required.

=cut

=head2 data

  data(Data)

This attribute is read-only, accepts C<(Data)> values, and is optional.

=cut

=head2 foreign_column

  foreign_column(Str)

This attribute is read-only, accepts C<(Str)> values, and is required.

=cut

=head2 foreign_table

  foreign_table(Str)

This attribute is read-only, accepts C<(Str)> values, and is required.

=cut

=head2 name

  name(Str)

This attribute is read-only, accepts C<(Str)> values, and is optional.

=cut

=head2 table

  table(Table)

This attribute is read-only, accepts C<(Table)> values, and is required.

=cut

=head1 METHODS

This package implements the following methods:

=cut

=head2 create

  create(Any %args) : Command

Registers a relation create and returns the Command object.

=over 4

=item create example #1

  # given: synopsis

  my $create = $self->create;

=back

=cut

=head2 delete

  delete(Any %args) : Command

Registers a relation update and returns the Command object.

=over 4

=item delete example #1

  # given: synopsis

  my $delete = $self->delete;

=back

=cut

=head2 doodle

  doodle(Any %args) : Doodle

Returns the associated Doodle object.

=over 4

=item doodle example #1

  # given: synopsis

  my $doodle = $self->doodle;

=back

=cut

=head1 AUTHOR

Al Newkirk, C<awncorp@cpan.org>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2011-2019, Al Newkirk, et al.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms
of the The Apache License, Version 2.0, as elucidated in the L<"license
file"|https://github.com/iamalnewkirk/doodle/blob/master/LICENSE>.

=head1 PROJECT

L<Wiki|https://github.com/iamalnewkirk/doodle/wiki>

L<Project|https://github.com/iamalnewkirk/doodle>

L<Initiatives|https://github.com/iamalnewkirk/doodle/projects>

L<Milestones|https://github.com/iamalnewkirk/doodle/milestones>

L<Contributing|https://github.com/iamalnewkirk/doodle/blob/master/CONTRIBUTE.md>

L<Issues|https://github.com/iamalnewkirk/doodle/issues>

=cut
